 09/15/2022  - This map was created by me in September 2022. Unemployment has its challenges, and I have not been immune to them. As a goal oriented person, I wanted to create a project to work on that would allow me to continue using my GIS skills, to possibly learn more skills in the process, and to possibly use my skills and passions to help serve my community. GIS and map making are a somewhat niche skill to have to help serve my community so I really needed to dig deep. I am a avid mountain biker, and the River's Edge Trails are the trails where I found that passion. I remembered back through the past 2 or so years, and thought about how so many trails have been built since the current map was made. These trails are a staple in our community and has really boosted attraction to the outdoors community. Thus, this project was created. This project allowed me to intersect my passions and skills to help serve my community.
  
 
  I walked the trails with the Strava app on my phone to collect the trail data. Strava has proven to be a surpringly good app to use as a GPS. The free version of this app allows one to record the data of their routes, and export them as a .gpx file which can then be converted to a shape file. I like using Strava because it is free and worked well under the tree cover of the woods that River's Edge is located in. 
    
 
  One the trail data was collected, the track point data was brought in to QGIS to be edited. Like any GPS, Strava did have some issues at such a fine scale, so the points needed to be cleaned up. I then used the "Points to Path" tool to create the trails on the map. Contour line data was found on the Frederick County, MD government website in their GIS data portal. 
   
   
  One issue that arose in this project was adding a hillshade layer. I wanted to add this to create a 3D effect, but this was presenting a challenge. in the Maryland government GIS data portal, they have LiDAR data of each county. The problem was when downloading the LiDAR data, the TIFF file would lose its spatial reference and would not be projected. Even looking at the metadata to see the original projection proved useless. I was not able to correctly project this rasterthorugh this method, but I did find a workaround. Instead of downloading the data and bringing it in to QGIS, I looked through the metadata and found a way to call the data in as a WMS. For the purpose of this project where the hillshade acts as a basemap, this worked perfectly.
    
    
  Once a rough draft was created, I sent it to the trail founder/builder, and he wanted to use it! The two of us worked together to make a finalized product. The finalized product included logos from all of the businesses who have shown support for the trails, and adding the Park SMART safety announcement. These were added/created through the use of InkScape, which is a free graphic design software. I really enjoyed this project as it allowed me to hone skills I already have, learn new skills, and lastly AND most importantly use my skills to serve my community
